# Linkml-project-cookiecutter
A [Cookiecutter](https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) template for projects using [`Linkml`](https://github.com/linkml/linkml). This template is an equivalent of running the following
```
linkml-ws new project-name
``` 

# Getting started

First, install the [cruft](https://github.com/cruft/cruft) package. Cruft enables keeping projects up-to-date with future updates made to this original template.

```
pip install cruft
```

Next, create a project using the `linkml-project-cookiecutter` template.
```
cruft create https://github.com/hrshdhgd/linkml-project-cookiecutter
```

This kickstarts an interactive session where you declare the following:
 - `project_name`: Name of the project. [defaults to: Project_X]
 - `project_description`: Description of the project. [defaults to: This is the project description.].
 - `author`: The author of the project. [defaults to: Harshad Hegde <hhegde@lbl.gov>]
 - `github_token_for_pypi_deployment`: The github token name which aligns with your autogenerated PyPI token for making releases. [defaults to: `PYPI_PASSWORD`]

This will generate the project folder abiding by the template configuration specified by `linkml-project-cookiecutter` in the [`cookiecutter.json`](https://github.com/hrshdhgd/linkml-project-cookiecutter/blob/main/cookiecutter.json) file. 

# What does this do?

This will generate the project folder very similar to what is mentioned in the [linkml-project-template](https://github.com/linkml/linkml-project-template) project.


# Success
Your project is ready to evolve!

# Future updates to the project's boilerplate code

In order to be up-to-date with the template, first check if there is a mismatch between the project's boilerplate code and the template by running:
```
cruft check
```

This indicates if there is a difference between the current project's boilerplate code and the latest version of the project template. If the project is up-to-date with the template:
```
SUCCESS: Good work! Project's cruft is up to date and as clean as possible :).
```

Otherwise, it will indicate that the project's boilerplate code is not up-to-date by the following:
```
FAILURE: Project's cruft is out of date! Run `cruft update` to clean this mess up.
```

For viewing the difference, run `cruft diff`. This shows the difference between the project's boilerplate code and the template's latest version.

After running `cruft update`, the project's boilerplate code will be updated to the latest version of the template.

